README.md, before:

# telegram-servermanager
Run shell commands on a linux host from a telegram bot.

## Description
Gives you the possibility to **run shell commands** on a linux host from a telegram bot with `/run`.  
You can also **manage services** with `/start`, `/stop` and `/run`, **WakeOnLan** is added by using `/wake`.  
It also **blacklists dangerous commands** like `rm -rf`, `shutdown`, `reboot`, `poweroff` and `halt`. You can extend this list!   

## Examples
/run:  
![tg-run](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/255c3930-17c2-49aa-8b9a-46a951861286)

blacklisted command:  
![tgbot-blacklist](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6530fbe3-1c07-451f-8df9-4eb1e85959ec)

/wake (WakeOnLan):  
![tgbot-wol](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6f900c60-3cd5-4f5d-885d-64ee3eddd4ba)

/start (managing services):  
![tgbot-service](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/65470b3b-2583-4879-96fb-26ed72c659d0)


Tested with:    
* Debian 12 Server  
* Python3: python-telegram-bot==21.10, cryptography==44.0.1
* Telegram

## Getting Started  
### Dependencies  
* Linux server with root shell access  
* Python3 installed on the server 
* Telegram bot  

### Installing
#### Telegram:
Get a Telegram bot token:  
* You need a telegram bot. To do this, send the command `/newbot` to [BotFather](https://t.me/botfather). Safely secure your token.  
* Add the used commands to your bot with `/setcommands`:
     ```
     run - run a command on your server
     wake - wake a client up with WakeOnLan
     start - start a service
     stop - stop a service
     status - get status of a service
     ```
Get your Telegram user_id:  
* Send the message `/start` to [userinfobot](https://t.me/userinfobot) to get your user id. Safely secure your user_id.  

#### On your linux server:

* Security notice: Create a new user with low privileges to run the bot (Example: "tgbot").
  You can run it as root, but i recommend to use a low privilege user!  
     ```sh
     sudo adduser tgbot
     ```  
* Install dependencies:  
     ```sh
     # Debian/Ubuntu
     sudo apt install python3 python3-pip python3-venv wakeonlan
     ```
* Clone the repository: 
     ```sh
     git clone https://github.com/emodii/telegram-servermanager.git
     # give your new user permission to the scripts and login as tgbot
     chown -R tgbot:tgbot telegram-servermanager && su - tgbot
     cd telegram-servermanager
     ``` 
* Create a new python3 venv and activate it
     ```sh
     mkdir venv
     python3 -m venv venv
     source venv/bin/activate
     ```  
* Install the python3 requirements  
     ```sh
     pip install -r requirements.txt
     ```
* Run setup.py to start the setup. You will get asked for your `bot-token` and your `user_id`.  
  Choose, if you want to use the blacklist and add more commands to it.  
  Select clients, that can get waked up with WakeOnLan and services, which can be managed with start, stop and status.  
     ```sh
     python3 setup.py  
     ```
* After the setup has finished, you can start the bot with telegram_servermanager.py  
     ```sh
     python3 telegram_servermanager.py  
     ```

#### Telegram bot:
* After starting `telegram_servermanager.py` your bot should say `Welcome! Use /run <command> to execute a shell command on your server.`
* Now you can start running commands with `/run`!

---

### Run the servermanger as a service

Create the file `/etc/systemd/system/tg-servermanager.service` with following input. Replace `/path/to` with your path, where the directory `telegram_servermanager` is placed.    

```
[Unit]
Description=Telegram Servermanager
After=network.target
[Service]
ExecStart=/path/to/telegram-servermanager/venv/bin/python /path/to/telegram-servermanager/telegram_servermanager.py
WorkingDirectory=/path/to/telegram-servermanager/
Restart=always
User=tgbot
Group=tgbot
[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

Now you can use the service via systemctl like any other!
```sh
systemctl start tg-servermanager.service
```

---

### Allowing your low privilege user to manage services
If you create a user (example: tgbot) for the bot, the user needs the permissions to manage services, if you want to use `/start` and `/stop`.  
Open the file visudo with `sudo visudo` and add the following to the bottom of the file:  
```sh
# tgbot services
tgbot ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD: /usr/bin/systemctl start nameofservice.service
tgbot ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD: /usr/bin/systemctl stop nameofservice.service
```

## Troubleshooting
If you have any problems, please check:
* if your telegram bot token and user_id is correct
* ensure that the permissions on the scripts are correct
* run the `setup.py` file again

## Version History
* 1.1
    * change: blacklist is now optional and not forced
    * added: /wake to wake a client with WakeOnLan
    * added: /stop, /start, /status to manage system services
* 1.0
    * Initial Release

## Ideas
* adding commands to manage docker containers

## Acknowledgments
* [Github - xgaia/serverbot](https://github.com/xgaia/serverbot?tab=readme-ov-file) for inspiration
* ChatGPT for helping me

Commit message:

added to-do list
added multiple to-do's
added security information

README.md, after:

# telegram-servermanager
Run shell commands on a linux host from a telegram bot.

## Description
First of all: this project is not finished, more security options will come. Use this bot carefully!  
  
This project gives you the possibility to **run shell commands** on a linux host from a telegram bot with `/run`.  
You can also **check service status** with `/status`, **WakeOnLan** is added by using `/wake`.  
It also **blacklists dangerous commands** like `rm -rf`, `shutdown`, `reboot`, `poweroff` and `halt`. You can extend this list!  
A whitelist option will be added soon!  

## Examples
/run:  
![tg-run](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/255c3930-17c2-49aa-8b9a-46a951861286)

blacklisted command:  
![tgbot-blacklist](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6530fbe3-1c07-451f-8df9-4eb1e85959ec)

/wake (WakeOnLan):  
![tgbot-wol](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6f900c60-3cd5-4f5d-885d-64ee3eddd4ba)


Tested with:    
* Debian 12 Server  
* Python3: python-telegram-bot==21.10, cryptography==44.0.1
* Telegram

## Getting Started  
### Dependencies  
* Linux server with root shell access  
* Python3 installed on the server 
* Telegram bot  

### Installing
#### Telegram:
Get a Telegram bot token:  
* You need a telegram bot. To do this, send the command `/newbot` to [BotFather](https://t.me/botfather). Safely secure your token.  
* Add the used commands to your bot with `/setcommands`:
     ```
     run - run a command on your server
     wake - wake a client up with WakeOnLan
     status - get status of a service
     ```
Get your Telegram user_id:  
* Send the message `/start` to [userinfobot](https://t.me/userinfobot) to get your user id. Safely secure your user_id.  

#### On your linux server:

* Security notice: Create a new user with low privileges to run the bot (Example: "tgbot").
  You can run it as root, but i recommend to use a low privilege user!  
     ```sh
     sudo adduser tgbot
     ```  
* Install dependencies:  
     ```sh
     # Debian/Ubuntu
     sudo apt install python3 python3-pip python3-venv wakeonlan
     ```
* Clone the repository: 
     ```sh
     git clone https://github.com/emodii/telegram-servermanager.git
     # give your new user permission to the scripts and login as tgbot
     chown -R tgbot:tgbot telegram-servermanager && su - tgbot
     cd telegram-servermanager
     ``` 
* Create a new python3 venv and activate it
     ```sh
     mkdir venv
     python3 -m venv venv
     source venv/bin/activate
     ```  
* Install the python3 requirements  
     ```sh
     pip install -r requirements.txt
     ```
* Run setup.py to start the setup. You will get asked for your `bot-token` and your `user_id`.  
  Choose, if you want to use the blacklist and add more commands to it.  
  Select clients, that can get waked up with WakeOnLan and services, which can be managed with start, stop and status.  
     ```sh
     python3 setup.py  
     ```
* After the setup has finished, you can start the bot with telegram_servermanager.py  
     ```sh
     python3 telegram_servermanager.py  
     ```

#### Telegram bot:
* After starting `telegram_servermanager.py` your bot should say `Welcome! Use /run <command> to execute a shell command on your server.`
* Now you can start running commands with `/run`!

---

### Run the servermanger as a service

Create the file `/etc/systemd/system/tg-servermanager.service` with following input. Replace `/path/to` with your path, where the directory `telegram_servermanager` is placed.    

```
[Unit]
Description=Telegram Servermanager
After=network.target
[Service]
ExecStart=/path/to/telegram-servermanager/venv/bin/python /path/to/telegram-servermanager/telegram_servermanager.py
WorkingDirectory=/path/to/telegram-servermanager/
Restart=always
User=tgbot
Group=tgbot
[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

Now you can use the service via systemctl like any other!
```sh
systemctl start tg-servermanager.service
```

---

## Troubleshooting
If you have any problems, please check:
* if your telegram bot token and user_id is correct
* ensure that the permissions on the scripts are correct
* run the `setup.py` file again

## Version History
* 1.1
    * change: blacklist is now optional and not forced
    * added: /wake to wake a client with WakeOnLan
    * added: /stop, /start, /status to manage system services
* 1.0
    * Initial Release

## To-Do
* security: get a more secure solution to run sudo commands, maybe with a wrapper script with contolled permissions
* security: add logging for auditing
* security: add command whitelist instead of blacklist as default, let user choose between these (whitelist == default)
    * let user add own custom commands for the bot in the setup to the whitelist
* add commands to manage docker containers?

## Acknowledgments
* [Github - xgaia/serverbot](https://github.com/xgaia/serverbot?tab=readme-ov-file) for inspiration
* Reddit: the `r/selfhosted` community
* ChatGPT for helping me
